---
layout: post
title: 'Hello world!'
date: '2014-04-02T17:41:00+03:00'
tags: []
categories: []
---

Hello world! Again!

I’m reading an article on the blog of Alex from 8thlight and liked the
blog design so much that I wanted to have my own like that.

But that’s not the only reason I’ve created this blog. I also think I
know the benefits of writing a blog: when you try to write you usually
get to understand the subject better than before writing about it.

So why still don’t have a blog?

One reason why it’s hard for me to do that is that I’m scared to be
exposed and proved wrong. Another is that I tend to change my mind along
the time, and I feel ashamed. But hey, doesn’t that mean I’m learning
things?

Another reason it that I think I have a pretty non-conventional point of
view at many things, and if I expose them, I might get
counter-arguments, which I’m not comfortable fighting. But then I
understand it’s natural for people to have different points of view on
things.

Then there are times, weeks, maybe months when I don’t feel like
blogging, and then blog feels like a failure. OK, so what? The point of
writing is not to have a necessarily flowing stream of articles, is it?
I mean that’s awesome to be able to do that, but is that really the
point? I think that the point is to do it more than never. And although
I’ve read a bunch of techniques to make yourself write daily, to do
something that you don’t feel inspired to do is painful, and I don’t
think that’s worth the effort.

One other reason I can think of now is that I have subjects that vary
wildly: kids and education, purpose of life, software development, human
relationships, and sometimes a combination of them. Is that OK to have
all of them on one blog? I mean those that like my philosophy would
probably get bored by my technical articles, and vice versa, wouldn’t
they? I still don’t know what to do about that.
