---
layout: post
title: On Diversity
date: '2014-04-20T18:05:00+03:00'
tags: []
categories: []
---
Accepting Diversity in people as a good thing, and understanding its
implications gave me a much better life.

As every other human being, I have my own chain of events and
experiences that led to the person I am today, and, what’s probably more
important, they led to my understanding of things. This is a pretty
unsophisticated definition of diversity, and still, one that drives the
point home.

Now, what “As every other human being” at the beginning of the previous
paragraph meant is pretty subtle, and still profound: if I accept it, I
am not bothered anymore about someone else having a different opinion on
something, I’m not frustrated by someone else not understanding my
opinion on this obvious thing. I understand that their understanding is
formed by a multitude of factors along their experience, which was
probably different than mine. So, I don’t regard them as opponents,
competitors or enemies, but simply people with a different life
experience. This gives me the peace of mind to respect their worldview
exactly as I like mine respected.

One other interesting implication is that as many people as there are on
Earth, given their innate diversity, there is little risk that too many
people will want the same thing that you want, and there will be none
left for you.

There is probably more to this picture, but grasping why variety is
naturally good, is of those simple things that have considerable effect
on how you  experience life.
