---
layout: post
title: On Testable JavaScript
date: '2014-04-20T19:14:00+03:00'
tags: [js]
categories: []
---
After I watched and shared Mark Trostler’s presentation “Testable
JavaScript” three times, at intervals of about a year. And for me, the
experience was like reading one of those books that you find out more
each time you re-read it.

Looking back, it’s easy to see that part of it was that, as a
mostly-self-taught web-developer, for a pretty long while I didn’t take
too serious the design patters and principles from the mainstream OO
world. So while I could read the code and see how and why it worked, I
didn’t quite grasp the underlying principles.

This last time, I had a fresh new perspective: I have successfully
brought my side project to a spaghetti that just brought me to my knees.
A mix of embarrassment with discouragement and burnout pushed me to look
for different ways to structure my code. I went on and read as many
things as I could about design patterns, so definitions and concepts
were pretty fresh in my mind when I’ve watched the presentation this
time. Probably equally important is that I had a clear question now: how
do I structure my code in a way that I can make sense of it even after 6
months of development.

The 2 big things that rang for me were programming to interfaces and the
decorator pattern. Even with amusingly awkward naming, the code snippets
brought the point home for me, and I immediately found places to use
them in my rebooted codebase. Even after reading Mark’s book, the two
things remained the biggest ones for me: I think it might be the 80–20
rule in action.

PS: I feel like my blog articles have a pretty abrupt end at times, and
I remember cases where real-world conversations felt like this too. I
think this may be a sign that I’m “straight to the point”, which is a
good thing, so I’m not too uncomfortable about it.
