---
layout: post
title: Why I stopped pursuing entrepreneurship
date: '2015-08-29T18:39:46+03:00'
---
More than a few years ago I decided I want to work on my own business.
I’ve been learning quite a few things from books, blogs, and podcasts,
and even tried a few things. But I think today it has become clear to me
that business ownership is not my thing.

I have just finished reading this book “40 Rules for Internet Business
Success” by Matthew Paulson. Before buying it, I have listened to the
free sample on Amazon. Those few minutes the author encourages you to
consider the reasons why you want to do this. It’s an approach that I
know of and consider wise, and I don’t know why I didn’t ask this
myself. This is ironic because I used to advice my friends something
similar: “Don’t forget why you want to do what you want to do.”

I did forget. I was so focused on finding ways to make it work that I
didn’t take time to reconsider why I wanted it in the first place. And
that book put it into words perfectly for me to ring this bell: Why do I
want to do this?

This drive started when I was in a place that I didn’t like, and I
thought that having my own business would fulfill my empty spaces. In
time though, I forgot that, and I just went on without reviewing what
did I want to achieve, and wether there are better ways to get that.
Today, if I look at where I am, there isn’t even a sign of the things
that originally put me on this path: I am fulfilled in ways that I
haven’t even dreamt of back then, and that, without having what I
thought I need.

I realize that building my own business is not needed for me to be
fulfilled.

I will continue to work on my side projects. They are fun and useful.
But I will not pursue the goal of building my own business.
