---
layout: post
title: My new notion of web app
date: '2015-05-11T18:21:58+03:00'
tags: []
categories: []
---
One of my side projects that I’ve been toying with, is a productivity
app for bailiffs. And since I’m reading “Lean Customer Development” by
Cindy Alvarez, a few days ago I went with my partner to interview a
bailiff — a former college teammate of his.

I had a prototype prepared to show off. Literally in the first minute of
me presenting the app, one thing that bubbled up really clear was his
reticence to accept the idea of storing the information online. I asked
him to let this aside for now because we can solve this with encryption,
he showed us his current system, but at the end of conversation, he
brought up this again:

> — Guys, if you want this to work, you should really make this in a way
> that it’ll give me the option have it offline. This stuff is strictly
> regulated.

I had this deeply ingrained notion that offline apps are not
practical/modern/good to build because of preconceived belief that it’s
hard to get to the user’s desktop to update/fix it, and then I’m a Web
developer, I wouldn’t enjoy going back to .NET or something to write
desktop apps! I refused to even considered it.

Later that evening though I have remembered about this thing called
“Chrome packaged apps”, which is basically a package — a directory —
with HTML, CSS, and JS files, and a manifest file, which can be
installed and run as a desktop app. Wow! This way I can have the both of
both world: I can give users the privacy they need, and still write
“Web” apps.

We’re far from having validated the project idea, but I’m already
super-excited by the possibilities this “must be offline” constraint
opened.
