---
layout: post
title: Choice is a search
date: '2016-01-24T22:35:47+02:00'
---
From time to time I stumble upon yet another article mentioning that
humans are just bad at choices. I think accepting it as a truth is
detrimental, and I’d like to disprove it.

Before you point at all the studies that prove that indeed humans are
inherently bad at choices, I invite you to look at this issue from a
different perspective: not if choices are hard or not, but rather to
understand what exactly is hard about which choices, and why, and
hopefully next time instead of “choice is hard” you can say “this
particular choice is hard because of [this particular reason].”

I see the coice as a search, and if you think about it this way it makes
sense that the clearer you define the search criteria, the easier you
will find whether there is a match or not. The size of the option set
also matters, but that is an obvious physical reality and not something
related to human nature.

Some examples.

I came into the café, and for more than a couple of seconds stared at
all the cakes trying to pick one. It may seem like a perfect embodiment
of the idea that choices are hard, but let’s look closer and see what
exactly is happening here.

What I’m trying to do is to fulfill a need — my hunger — and I have a
few options. From all those cakes, I have tasted a few before, but by
now I really hardly remember how any of them tastes. So essentially I’m
trying to pick between unknowns — and _this_ is what makes it hard.

In this case it’s hard because the search criteria is hard to define.
And because the search criteria is vague, it’s hard to apply it to the
options and tell which one matches.

One other example that is often brought up as illustration of this
pseudo-phenomenon is how hard is to pick clothes. Say you want a new
pair of jeans and, because there are 20 of slightly different pairs of
jeans in the store, this — the variety — is speculated to be the reason
for why it’s hard to make a choice.

No, this is not the reason. It is hard because it’s not possible to
determine if a pair of jeans will fit your body just by looking at it or
by reading its label. You can read some key measurements on the label,
but you can’t be sure they fit until you put them on. It may be tedious
to put on each of the 20 pairs of jeans, but this has nothing to do with
choice, or with any inherent defect in humans.

In this case the difficulty lies in defining the search criteria, but
also in verifying if the options match the criteria: you have to put the
jeans on.

Another frequently speculated example is buying a computer: how do you
choose between so many brands? The clearer I define what I need it to
do, the easier it makes the choice. And it’s as valid the other way
around: the less specific I am about what I need it to do, the harder it
will be.

Again, the difficulty of of this particular choice actually lies in
defining the search criteria.

\* * *

So, there is no paradox to the choice itself, or anything inherent in
human nature that prevents it from making choices. There is only clarity
or the lack thereof.
